We have these geometries here.
And we're pretty close to this.
Actually, all we need to
do differently is increase
the detail of our icosahedron geometry.
That's all we need to do differently
in order to get this output.
But what we really want is we don't wanna
draw spheres on each of these points,
we want to draw discs or circles.
So we're gonna create a new
geometry before our for loop.
We're gonna call it circle geom.
And we're gonna say new
THREE.CircleGeometry and the radius is
gonna be one and the segments we can leave
it at 32 or 64 or something like that.
And then we're just gonna use
that instead of the geometry for
each of the points around our sphere.
And then one last little thing
we need to do is make it so
that we align each of these circles and we
snap them onto the surface of the sphere.
And to do that,
we're gonna use a utility called lookAt.
So we can say mesh.lookAt.
And then we'll look at the center,
Which is 000, and that's gonna
turn each of these meshes towards the
center, which is the center of the sphere.
And then the last thing maybe
is to turn wireframe off and
make the points whatever color
you'd like the points to be.
Now here I'm no longer
able to see the points.
And so
here's where I would start to debug this.
Because I would have imagined
this would appear the points but
maybe it's because they're
being blocked by the sphere.
So maybe just to test, you don't need
to copy this part, maybe just to test.
I'm gonna push these out
by increasing the position.
But what I'm actually starting to see
is that it's almost like I'm looking
only at the inside of these circles.
And maybe what's actually happening
is that I'm only rendering
one side of the circles.
So if I do in my material
side is THREE.DoubleSide.
Now I should see both
sides of these circles.
And I can do instead of that
I can say front side or
back side and
you'll see how that would change.
So this is the default is front side and
it's almost like I'm looking
inside of these meshes.
If I say backside, now,
I'm only gonna see the outside edge,
the outside face So I can move
my position back down to what it was
before, just on the surface of the mesh.
And so that's all that I needed to do was
just change the side of the material,
because I was only seeing the back-facing
side, or the front-facing side.
So I'm gonna flip that.
And so now we actually have kind
of a Yayoi Kusama type of a ball.
And we can change the detail with
the icosahedron back to zero, or one, or
two whatever you'd like.
You could even randomly set the scale.
So you could do scale times Math.random().
Just for those who have not used it yet
I have some utilities,
part of Canvas sketch,
called Canvas dash sketch dash util.
It's got a lot of utilities
around randomness and color and
math, this might be a good opportunity to
start to use some of the random utility.
If you're interested,
you don't need to copy this, but
if you're interested,
you could require this and NPM install it.
So for example, I would go into
my project that I'm working on,
NPM install Canvas/sketch/util.
And then I could copy and
paste this require
statement and bring this into my sketch.
And this might be review from
those who've already used this,
but if not, you could always just try to.
You copy this in, you'd require it in your
sketch and then you can actually use this
random utility to produce some
more interesting random values.
So instead of always a uniform
randomness between zero and one,
you could use this, for example, for
within a range between 0.25 and one.
So that the circles don't get too small.
And maybe we'll
have to scale that by some small number
just to make sure it's not huge.
You could also use gaussian randomness.
So gaussian randomness is gonna
produce values that are sometimes
larger than one, sometimes they're gonna
be smaller than minus one as well.
They could go up to three or four,
depending on the values but you'll see
it's gonna produce these very drastically
different modulations of randomness.
So gaussian randomness is sometimes
very nice for more organic changes
in randomness rather than always making
it uniformly between zero and one.
But you'll definitely start to see, as we
start to get larger and larger circles,
we start to see that this sort of
approach, it doesn't really work so well.
And so this is where we have to
take consideration of how do we
approach this in a better way
where the circles are actually
mapped directly onto
the surface of the sphere,
as opposed to just sitting there as
disks on top of the sphere itself.
We almost want to change
the the fragment shader so
that these circles are kind
of drawn onto the surface.
So that we don't get this kind of
ugly effect here that we're getting.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm just
gonna make it so that this is very,
maybe uniform, I'm just gonna do, I'm just
gonna leave it as a simple value like 0.1.
Maybe multiply that by Math.random()
again, just to keep it simple.
0.25 or something.
And then I'm gonna copy and
paste this file and I'm gonna show
you an alternative approach again.
[LAUGH] So
you might be thinking we're just doing
the same thing over and over again.
But this is really what happens when you
start to work with graphics programming.
Somebody give you a task.
You start to approach that task.
And then you realize your approach,
although it works,
it may not work perfectly.
And so
you have to slightly shift the approach.
And that's kind of what we're working
through here is just a realistic exercise,
of how we go through these different
approaches and how each step,
it looks good until we find a bug with
it until we find an issue with it and
then we have to reevaluate and
try to figure out what do we do next.
And so I'm just gonna go in copy and
paste this file, just to have it on
hand in case I want to come back to it.
You might want to start renaming
these just to be more descriptive.
I'm gonna rename this to
be circles-on-sphere.